- [Instructor] Recent Java versions
brought some great new features to the language
that we'll dive into and explore over the next few lessons.
Unlocking new language features is one of the best parts
about migrating to a new Java version for developers.
To help explore these new features,
I have created classes within the exercise files
that contain methods that mimic the functionality
of the news Java features we're going to explore.
This allows you to see what a particular feature does
and how to use the method
in the new version of the language.
So here you see the isBlank method,
and what I've done is added an implementation
that trims a string and then checks to see
if the length of the string after it's been trimmed is zero.
We will take this implementation
and replace it with the new isBlank method found in Java 11.
Then we're able to check
that there is parity between the functionality
by using unit tests that I've created
for each of these methods.
So this is a great way to understand
what the new methods do.
Now some of the methods that we're going to explore
will be preview features.
A preview feature is a fully implemented feature
that will be available in a future release,
but it is not yet a permanent feature of the JDK.
Preview features are typically used
to gather developer feedback
before a feature may become permanent.
So they're not meant for production usage.
In order to enable preview features,
we need to configure our IDE.
So I'm going to navigate to Window, then Preferences,
and then I'm going to expand Java,
and navigate to the Compiler section.
Now you'll notice currently our compiler is set for Java 14,
but it is not enabling preview features.
So simply uncheck the use default compliance settings
and then click Enable preview features for Java 14.
And then I'm going to go ahead and tell it to ignore these,
so we're not going to get any squiggly lines in the IDE
when we use them.
After that, I'll just click on Apply,
and then hit Yes.
And then Apply and Close.
Excellent, so our IDE is now set up to use preview features.
I'll be sure to point these out
when we encounter them in our lessons.